---
pubDate: 2026-03-13T12:00
---

I've been thinking about redesigning the site, but I haven't come up with anything I like more than what I've got going on already. I'm particularly struggling with colors -- the early version of the site had a sort of synthwave-inspired color palette, but over the years I've tweaked them to instead use some of my favorite colors like blue and yellow. Feels odd to leave those behind, and I can't decide on new colors to use.

The biggest challenge has been choosing complimentary colors for light and dark themes -- personally I can't stand any light theme, they just strain my eyes and make them feel like they're melting. I'm a dark theme man. I'd use dark theme exclusively if I didn't think someone that's coming to read a blog post for help doing something might have the opposite issue that I do, where they strain with dark themes and need the light theme for legibility.

So I include it, but it makes no sense using completely divergent color schemes, even if one of them will barely be seen by me. With the current color scheme I struggled with the accent colors. (I think? I'm not a professional web designer, this is all by the seat of my pants.) I like the light teal I use in the dark theme for headings, navbar links, icons, etc. (I based it off "Miami Teal" which reminds me of growing up in, you guessed it, Miami.) It's totally unusable over a white background in the light theme, so tried a bunch of darker teals, but most of them looked more green than anything. I've settled on the dark teal shade I'm using now in light theme, but I'm not really satisfied.

Feel free to [email me](mailto:design@fullmetalbrackets.com?subject=I+love/hate+your+website) or reach out on [Mastodon](https://social.lol/@adiaz) with any suggestions or to tell me you hate my entire color scheme, it's useful feedback either way.